Default SDK configuration (#439)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification: specification/sdk-configuration.md

# Default SDK Configuration

<details>
<summary>Table of Contents</summary>

* [Abstract](#abstract)
* [Configuration Interface](#configuration-interface)

</details>

## Abstract

> The default Open Telemetry SDK (hereafter referred to as "The SDK")

Reviewer: We usually use `OpenTelemetry` instead of `Open Telemetry`

Author: fixed, and good catch

> The default Open Telemetry SDK (hereafter referred to as "The SDK")

Author: ```suggestion
The default OpenTelemetry SDK (hereafter referred to as "The SDK")
```

is highly configurable. This specification outlines the mechanisms by
which the SDK can be configured. It does
not attempt to specify the details of what can be configured.

## Configuration Interface

### Programmatic

The SDK MUST provide a programmatic interface for all configuration.

> This interface SHOULD be written in the language of the SDK itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This interface SHOULD be written in and accessible by the language of the SDK itself.
```

For example, I could write a Python interface in C.

Author: I'm not sure how a C implementation for python would satisfy the first part, that is, being written in python.

Author: That being said, I think this is a fine addition.  👍

Author: What I was hoping to avoid was something like a groovy-only build DSL (ahem, gradle), that's not really usable directly from java. Does that fit with what you were thinking?

Reviewer 2: I was really just nitpicking, I think the definition is already rather reasonable. But for a C SDK (not a Python SDK!), a Python binding written in C would technically satisfy the requirements, and one might even say that using Python for configuring a C SDK/application is reasonable.

> All other configuration mechanisms SHOULD be built on top of this interface.

Reviewer 3: I'm happy with this but it feels like just a start. Do you think we should go as far as specifying a way to transport configuration in a binary protocol?

Author: I think that's a very good idea; I'd love that to be a follow-on PR from this, as those details are a separate concern.
